OpenInfraSummit2022/DigitalSovereignty.md, before:

# Digital sovereignty: Why open infrastructure matters

## Abstract (1000 chars)

Hardly any other term has been redefined so frequently in public discussions during
recent years as “digital sovereignty”. Now in the mainstream, interpretations range
from using Open Source Software down to local franchise agreements with proprietary
cloud providers.

This talk will demystify the term “digital sovereignty” and outline why it’s
not just enough to be sovereign on a higher container layer or create local spin-offs 
from proprietary cloud service providers.Together we will look at different criteria
for digital sovereignty and realize that some closed-source “sovereign” cloud 
offerings may not bring as much sovereignty as promised.

Open infrastructure matters and is the key to independence, trust and innovation.
For true sovereignty, we need open source, operating knowledge and vital open
communities.

## Social Summary (100 chars)

Let's demystify "sovereignty" and outline why it’s not enough to create local
franchise Azure stacks.

## What should attendees expect to learn? (1000 chars)

We will develop a well-defined taxonomy to better classify the various "sovereign"
cloud offerings. Participants will learn to confidently participate in public
discussions and how to demystify the frequently misused term digital sovereignty.
Together, we recap the key principles of the Four Freedoms and learn how they
create true digital sovereignty for government, industry, research, and society.

Commit message:

Review of proposal with some suggested changes.
Signed-off-by: Felix Kronlage-Dammers <fkr@hazardous.org>

OpenInfraSummit2022/DigitalSovereignty.md, after:

# Digital sovereignty: Why open infrastructure matters

## Abstract (1000 chars)

Hardly any other term has been redefined and reframed so frequently in public discussions
in recent years as “digital sovereignty”. Interpretations range from using Open Source Software
down to local franchise agreements with proprietary cloud providers applying the term
as a boilerplate.

This talk will demystify the term “digital sovereignty” and outline why it is
not just enough to be sovereign on a higher container layer or create local spin-offs 
from proprietary cloud service providers. Together we will look at different criteria
for digital sovereignty and realize that closed-source “sovereign” cloud
offerings may not bring as much sovereignty as promised.

Open infrastructure matters and is key to independence, trust and innovation.
In order to achieve true digital sovereignty, we need open source, operating knowledge
and vital open communities.

## Social Summary (100 chars)

Let's demystify "sovereignty" and outline why it’s not enough to create local
franchise stacks built on proprietary building blocks.

## What should attendees expect to learn? (1000 chars)

We will develop a well-defined taxonomy to better classify the various "sovereign"
cloud offerings. Participants will learn to confidently participate in public
discussions and how to demystify the frequently misused term digital sovereignty.
Together, we recap the key principles of the Four Freedoms and learn how they
create true digital sovereignty for government, industry, research, and society.
