OpenInfraSummit2022/JumpstartSCS.md, before:

# Sovereign Cloud Stack: A springboard to giant's shoulders

Format: Presentation  
Track: Open Development  
Level: Beginner  
Authors: Eduard Itrich, ???  
Tags: #101, #UpstreamDevelopment, #CaseStudy  

## Abstract (1000 chars)

Sovereign Cloud Stack (SCS) is a network of existing and future providers of
standardized sovereign cloud infrastructure to join forces in defining, implementing
and operating a fully open, federated, compatible platform. We're integrating and
standardizing existing and proven Open Source components such as e.g. OpenStack
and Kubernetes. Our stack is defined an open development process with open design
discussions and decisions by an open community. In doing so, our community stands
like a tender seedling on the shoulders of giants like the OIF, CNCF or Gaia-X
communities.

This talk will give you a look under the hood of Sovereign Cloud Stack on the one
hand and an insight into our community on the other hand. Learn how we're collaborating
and especially how we provide our members a springboard into great Open Source communities.

## Social Summary (100 chars)

Ever wondered how to climb the shoulders of giants? SCS is your springboard to
great communities!

## What should attendees expect to learn? (1000 chars)

Let us give you a look under the hood of the Sovereign Cloud Stack and how we
empower cloud providers to offer state-of-the-art Infrastructure-as-a-Service and
Container-as-a-Service while being fully compliant with European data protection
and security standards. Attendees will moreover enjoy a guided tour through
the SCS community and learn how to foster a healthy and engaged community based
on the principles of the Four Opens. A special focus will be on how to keep up
with different upstream  communities and how we offer our members a stepping stone
to major projects.

## Additional resources

[1] https://scs.community/about/  
[2] https://scs.community/assets/slides/summit2021/travelguide.pdf

Commit message:

Incorporate the 'collaboration over competition' paradigm.
Discussed with @itrich.

Signed-off-by: Felix Kronlage-Dammers <fkr@hazardous.org>

OpenInfraSummit2022/JumpstartSCS.md, after:

# Sovereign Cloud Stack: A springboard to giant's shoulders

Format: Presentation  
Track: Open Development  
Level: Beginner  
Authors: Eduard Itrich, ???  
Tags: #101, #UpstreamDevelopment, #CaseStudy  

## Abstract (1000 chars)

Sovereign Cloud Stack (SCS) is a network of existing and future providers of
standardized sovereign cloud infrastructure to join forces in defining, implementing
and operating a fully open, federated, compatible platform. We're integrating and
standardizing existing and proven Open Source components such as e.g. OpenStack
and Kubernetes. Our stack is defined in an open development process with open design
discussions and decisions by an open community. By doing so, our community stands
like a tender seedling on the shoulders of giants like the OIF, CNCF or Gaia-X
communities. Collaboration of individuals from various companies has a long tradition
in technical commitees and organizations. The SCS project takes this into the space
of cloud computing and is an excellent example of the paradigm collaboration over
competition.

This talk will give you a look under the hood of Sovereign Cloud Stack on the one
hand and an insight into our community on the other hand. Learn how we're collaborating
and especially how we provide our members a springboard into great Open Source communities.

## Social Summary (100 chars)

Ever wondered how to climb the shoulders of giants? SCS is your springboard to
great communities!

## What should attendees expect to learn? (1000 chars)

Let us give you a look under the hood of the Sovereign Cloud Stack and how we
empower cloud providers to offer state-of-the-art Infrastructure-as-a-Service and
Container-as-a-Service while being fully compliant with European data protection
and security standards. Furthermore attendees will enjoy a guided tour through
the SCS architecture as well as the community and learn how to foster a healthy
and engaged community based on the principles of the Four Opens. A special focus
will be on how to keep up with different upstream  communities and how we offer our
members a stepping stone to major projects.
Be prepared to gather insights on how we all become better by collaboration and that
there is nothing to be afraid of by working together in a competitive industry.

## Additional resources

[1] https://scs.community/about/  
[2] https://scs.community/assets/slides/summit2021/travelguide.pdf
