OpenInfraSummit2022/LBaaSForum.md, before:

# Forum on Loadbalancer-as-a-Service - fostering Octavia and taking LBaaS to a next Level

Forum or BoF?

## Abstract (1000 chars)

As part of the collaboration within the Sovereign Cloud Stack project the topic of
Loadbalancer-as-a-Service has grown interest. Especially in regard to Octavia and
its further development as well as topics such a Multi-Region / geo-redundant
loadbalancing. Discussion arose around the future development of octavia and wether
the current path being taken is the one that serves operators of OpenStack based
clouds best.

## Social Summary (100 chars)

Let's discuss the next steps in loadbalancer-as-a-service on OpenStack!

## What should attendees expect to learn? (1000 chars)

We want to spark a further discussion on how best tackle topics around the future
development of LBaaS within OpenStack in order to adress the needs of CSPs as well
as other cloud operators.
Attendees should be interested in development of LBaaS on OpenStack. Either from
the operator, integrator or development side of things.

Commit message:

finalize with session type and speakers submitted (#12)
Signed-off-by: Felix Kronlage-Dammers <fkr@hazardous.org>

OpenInfraSummit2022/LBaaSForum.md, after:

# Forum on Loadbalancer-as-a-Service - fostering Octavia and taking LBaaS to a next Level

Session type: BoF
Speaker:

Felix Kronlage-Dammers (moderator)
Kurt Garloff (speaker)
Christian Berendt (speaker)
(but as this will be a BoF, this was just for starters ;)

## Abstract (1000 chars)

As part of the collaboration within the Sovereign Cloud Stack project the topic of
Loadbalancer-as-a-Service has grown interest. Especially in regard to Octavia and
its further development as well as topics such a Multi-Region / geo-redundant
loadbalancing. Discussion arose around the future development of octavia and wether
the current path being taken is the one that serves operators of OpenStack based
clouds best.

## Social Summary (100 chars)

Let's discuss the next steps in loadbalancer-as-a-service on OpenStack!

## What should attendees expect to learn? (1000 chars)

We want to spark a further discussion on how best tackle topics around the future
development of LBaaS within OpenStack in order to adress the needs of CSPs as well
as other cloud operators.
Attendees should be interested in development of LBaaS on OpenStack. Either from
the operator, integrator or development side of things.
