OpenInfraSummit2022/ObservabilityInOpenStack.md, before:

# Observability in OpenStack: - Learnings and Values from the SIG Monitoring at SCS

## Abstract (1000 chars)

The Sovereign Cloud Stack (SCS) is built upon the shoulders of giants: With proven technology such
as OpenStack and Kubernetes the SCS project is building a modular software stack. SCS is much more
than just another cloud stack - much rather SCS defines standards as part of a community process in
which CSPs work together on their use-cases while also providing a reference implementation.
As part of the project the SIG Monitoring the involved CSPs looked at their needs for observability
within OpenStack as well as other components and derived monitoring building blocks that
feature alerting, metrics collection as well as logging.

## Social Summary (100 chars)

Rolling out monitoring is easy - difficulty arises in what to actually observe and focus on. Let's tackle that!

## What should attendees expect to learn? (1000 chars)

By now everyone is aware of the importance of proper monitoring and the value of collecting
metrics. However - which of the metrics are useful and what needs to be collected? Which components
should be alerted on and be highlighted? 
These are items that were part of our journey in the SIG Monitoring and that we'd like to share and
also collect feedback upon from the broader community.

Commit message:

some rewording, explain a bit better of what is offered in the talk
Signed-off-by: Felix Kronlage-Dammers <fkr@hazardous.org>

OpenInfraSummit2022/ObservabilityInOpenStack.md, after:

# Observability in OpenStack: - Learnings and Values from the SIG Monitoring at SCS

## Abstract (1000 chars)

The Sovereign Cloud Stack (SCS) is built upon the shoulders of giants: With proven technology such
as OpenStack and Kubernetes the SCS project is building a modular software stack. SCS is much more
than just another cloud stack - much rather SCS gathers an open community to join forces and define
common standards - while also providing a reference implementation.
As part of the projects Special Interest Group Monitoring involved CSPs and community members looked
at their needs for observability within OpenStack as well as other components and derived monitoring
building blocks that feature alerting, metrics collection as well as logging. The talk will give
an overview of the outcomes but will also highlight parts of the journey within the SIG and will
give insights to understand the rationale behind design decisions.

## Social Summary (100 chars)

Rolling out monitoring is easy - difficulty arises in what to actually observe and focus on. Let's tackle that!

## What should attendees expect to learn? (1000 chars)

By now everyone is aware of the importance of proper monitoring and the value of collecting
metrics. However - which of the metrics are useful and what needs to be collected? Which components
should be alerted on and be highlighted? 
These are items that were part of our journey in the SIG Monitoring and that we'd like to share and
also collect feedback upon from the broader community.
