OpenInfraSummit2023/Open-Collaboration-viewed-through-the-eyes-of-a-PO.md, before:

# Open Collaboration and Development in SCS - viewed through the eyes of a Product Owner

Track: Open Development

Authors: Felix Kronlage-Dammers

Technical Level: Beginner

## Abstract (1000 chars)

The Sovereign Cloud Stack (SCS) orchestrates various standardization and development
efforts in an open and collobaritve fashion. The projects development efforts typically 
happen in the corresponding upstream project - done through funding and tender projects
just as much as through interested parties at the various cloud service providers that
utilize the SCS stack. Coordination happens in recurring meetings facilitated by the
product owners at the SCS project - embracing the four opens!
In the course of this talk the Product Owner for the IaaS Reference Implementation of the
Sovereign Cloud Stack, which is based on OpenStack obviously, will dive into how the
development process works and will share insights on what went well in the first years
and where things needed (and still need) improvement and how these hurdles are tackled.
Focus will be placed on the facilitation of these, very special, sprint plannings and reviews
as well as the orchestration of a product with that many stakeholders.

## Social Summary (100 chars)

Product Owner is not just a job, it is a mission! Enablement is what it is about!

## What should attendees expect to learn? (1000 chars)

Life as a Product Owner in a coherent team within one company is something different
than in a project where people from various companies, all with their own priorities,
jointly work together. I want to share my experience and mechanisms that I use to still
align everyone and move the project forward. Attendees can expect to take away ideas
on how to facilitate such meetings and also which ideas turned out for the worse ;)

Commit message:

incorporate review and feedback from @itrich
Thanks @itrich for looking this over!

Signed-off-by: Felix Kronlage-Dammers <fkr@hazardous.org>

OpenInfraSummit2023/Open-Collaboration-viewed-through-the-eyes-of-a-PO.md, after:

# Open Collaboration and Development in SCS - viewed through the eyes of a Product Owner

Track: Open Development

Authors: Felix Kronlage-Dammers

Technical Level: Beginner

## Abstract (1000 chars)

The Sovereign Cloud Stack (SCS) orchestrates various standardization and development
efforts in an open and collaboritve fashion. The projects development efforts typically
happens in the corresponding upstream project - done through funding and tender projects
just as much as through interested parties at the various cloud service providers that
utilize the SCS stack. Coordination happens in recurring meetings facilitated by the
product owners at the SCS project - embracing the four opens!
In the course of this talk the Product Owner for the IaaS Reference Implementation of the
Sovereign Cloud Stack, which is based on OpenStack obviously, will dive into how this
development process works. Insights will be shared on what went well in the first years
and where things needed (and still need) improvement and how these hurdles are tackled.
The focus of this talk will be placed on the facilitation of these, very special,
sprint plannings and reviews as well as the orchestration of a product with that many
stakeholders.

## Social Summary (100 chars)

Product Owner is not just a job, it is a mission! Enablement is what it is about!

## What should attendees expect to learn? (1000 chars)

Life as a Product Owner in a coherent team within one company is something different
than in a project where people from various companies, all with their own priorities,
jointly work together. I want to share my experience and mechanisms that I use to still
align everyone and move the project forward. Attendees can expect to take away ideas
on how to facilitate such meetings and also which ideas turned out for the worse ;)
